mind your decisions fresh tal Walker
here in math land birthdays are very
important by law a company has to give
all of its employees a holiday whenever
any of its employees has a birthday also
a company cannot discriminate based on a
person's birthday the employees really
enjoyed the birthday holidays because
they work all other days of a 365 day
year a company that hires too many
employees is doomed to have too many
holidays but a company that hires too
few employees will be understaffed so a
company hires you to do the math how
many workers should the company hire so
that it has the highest expected person
days worked per year this problem is
adapted from Frederick Mosteller z50
challenging problems in probability with
solutions pause the video if you'd like
to give it a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
suppose a company has n employees an
employee has a 1 over 365 chance to be
born each day that means there's a 364
over 365 chance that each day is not a
person's birthday the probability that a
given day has no birthdays will be the
product of this for each of the N
employees this is because each employees
birthday is assumed to be an independent
event well group these terms together
and we get 364 over 365 ^ n now we need
to take the expected work days which
will be this sum over all of the 365
days in the year we substitute in the
formula and then we sum from 1 to 365 to
get 365 multiplied by 364 over 365 all ^
n now recall that the company has n
employees so the expected at person work
days will be n multiplied by this this
is what we want to maximize now we can
use a clever little trick so the natural
log is a monotonically increasing
function we can equivalently maximize
the natural logarithm of this function
so we maximize the logarithm now we use
the properties of logarithms the product
will turn into a sum and then we take
this exponent N and bring it down we can
now take the first derivative to find
extrema the first derivative is equal to
1 over n plus the natural log of 364
over 365 we can solve for where this is
equal to 0 and we'll get n star is equal
to negative 1 over the natural log of
364 over 365 notice the first derivative
is greater than 0 for values less than
this and it's less than 0 for values
greater than this thus we have a maximum
we now consider what value this is and
we get 360 4.5 approximately we're
considering whole numbers of workers so
we're going to test the cases of
is equal to 360 for an N is equal to 365
well go back to the original form of the
function that we wanted to maximize well
then substitute in n is equal to 360 4
and n is equal to 365 at first I thought
these values were different but thanks
to some help at math Stack Exchange
they showed me why these two are equal
to each other to see why let's convert
the first formula into the second we'll
multiply it by 365 over 365 which is
equal to 1 now let's switch this 364 and
365 we can then group these fractions
together and raise the exponent and lo
and behold we have to equal formulas so
the answer is either case is true and is
equal to 364 or n is equal to 365 and
that's the answer to the puzzle and it
works out to be approximately forty
eight thousand nine hundred and forty
three point five person days but there's
one more fun aspect to this puzzle we'll
rewrite this formula as the following
this will be equal to the expected work
days with holidays now if there were no
holidays at all
365 employees would work 365 days
so that's 365 squared if we take the
ratio of these two will cancel out these
factors and we end up with 1 minus 1
over 3 and 65 this quantity raised to
the power of 365 interestingly this is
approximately equal to 1 over e and the
constant e comes out of nowhere in math
line even strange laws about probability
holidays lead to magical surprises
thanks for being the best subscribers on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]
you